@node Part V Trouble Shooting
@chapter Trouble Shooting


This chapter deals with a number of (common) problems encountered by
people using the Forms Library. Ways of avoiding them are presented.

@table @asis
@item @code{fl show form()} only draws the form partially
This only happens if immediately following @code{@ref{fl_show_form()}}
the application program blocks the execution (e.g., waiting for a
socket connection, starting a new process via @code{fork()} etc.). To
fix this problem, you can flush the X buffer manually using
@code{fl_update_display(1)} before blocking occurs or use an idle
callback to check the status of the blocking device or let the main
loop handle it for you via @code{@ref{fl_add_io_callback()}}.
@item I updated the value of a slider/counter/label, but it does not change
This only happens if the update is followed by a blockage of execution
or a long task without involving the main loop of Forms Library. You
can force a screen update using @code{fl_update_display(1)}.
@item I found a bug in XForms, What do I do?
Please consider subscribing to the XForms mailing list at

@url{http://lists.nongnu.org/mailman/listinfo/xforms-development}

and sending an email with information about the bug you found. Please
try to post information about the version of the Forms Library you're
using and your OS beside a description of the bug. Some sample code
that exhibits the erratic behavior would help greatly.

If, for some reasons, you don't want subscribe to the mailing list you
may also send an email to one of the maintainers. At the moment you
probably should first contact Jens Thoms Toerring,
<@email{jt@@toerring.de}>.
@end table
