@node Preface
@unnumbered @emph{Preface}

The Forms Library for the X Window system (or XForms for short) is a
GUI toolkit with a rather long history. It was developed in the last
decade of the last millenium by @strong{Dr.@: T.@: C.@: Zhao} (then at
the Department of Physics, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, USA) and
@strong{Prof.@: Dr.@: Mark Overmars} (Department of Computer Science,
Utrecht University, Netherlands) at a time when there were hardly any
alternatives except expensive packages. While at first being closed
source it became open source software in 2002, distributed according
to the Lesser GNU Public License (LGPLv2).

While development slowed down a bit while other toolkits became
available and matured, XForms is still used, and development
continues. While it may not be as polished as newer toolkits it
has the advantage of being relatively small and thus easier to get
started with it.

The XForms home page is at
@center @url{http://xforms-toolkit.org/}
The sources and mailing list are hosted on
@center @url{https://savannah.nongnu.org/projects/xforms/}
The source package can be downloaded from
@center @url{http://download.savannah.gnu.org/releases/xforms/}
while the @code{git} repository can be accessed via
@center @url{git://git.savannah.nongnu.org/xforms.git}
@center @url{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/xforms.git}
@center @url{ssh://git.sv.gnu.org/srv/git/xforms.git}

There also is a mailing list. You can subscribe to it at
@center @url{http://lists.nongnu.org/mailman/listinfo/xforms-development}
The archive of the mailing list can be found at
@center @url{http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/xforms-development/}
The archive of messages from before August 2009 and going back until
1996 is at
@center @url{http://xforms-toolkit.org/old-archive}
Please write to the mailing list if you have questions or find bugs.

This document is based on the documentation for version 0.89 of the
Forms Library. It has been reconstructed from the PDF version (the
original sources seem to have been lost) and has been updated to cover
all changes introduced since version 0.89.

In the following the preface for the last available version of the
documentation (version 0.89 from June 2000) is reproduced. Please note
that quite a bit of the information there-in is outdated. Many of the
URLs mentioned don't exist anymore, email addresses have changed and
the restrictions on the distribution of the library have been removed
by the original authors in favor of the LGPL.

@sp 4

@strong{Preface of Version 0.89 (June 2000)}

Window-based user interfaces are becoming a common and required
feature for most computer systems, and as a result, users have come to
expect all applications to have polished user-friendly interfaces.
Unfortunately, constructing user interfaces for programs is in general
a time consuming process. In the last few years a number of packages
have appeared that help build up graphical user interfaces (so-called
GUI's) in a simple way. Most of them, though, are difficult to use
and/or expensive to buy and/or limited in their capabilities. The
Forms Library was constructed to remedy this problem. The design goals
when making the Forms Library were to create a package that is
intuitive, simple to use, powerful, graphically good looking and
easily extendible.

The main notion in the Forms Library is that of a form. A form is a
window on which different objects are placed. Such a form is displayed
and the user can interact with the different objects on the form to
indicate his/her wishes. Many different classes of objects exist, like
buttons (of many different flavors) that the user can push with the
mouse, sliders with which the user can indicate a particular setting,
input fields in which the user can provide textual input, menus from
which the user can make choices, browsers in which the user can scroll
through large amounts of text (e.g., help files), etc. Whenever the
user changes the state of a particular object on one of the forms
displayed the application program is notified and can take action
accordingly. There are a number of different ways in which the
application program can interact with the forms, ranging from very
direct (waiting until something happens) to the use of callback
routines that are called whenever an object changes state.

The application program has a large amount of control over how objects
are drawn on the forms. It can set color, shape, text style, text
size, text color, etc. In this way forms can be fine tuned to one's
liking.

The Forms Library consists of a large number of C-routines to build up
interaction forms with buttons, sliders, input fields, dials, etc. in
a simple way. The routines can be used both in C and in C++ programs.
The library uses only the services provided by the Xlib and should run
on all workstations that have X installed on them. The current version
needs 4bits of color (or grayscale) to look nice, but it will function
properly on workstations having less depth (e.g., XForms works on B&W
X-terminals).

The library is easy to use. Defining a form takes a few lines of code
and interaction is fully handled by the library routines. A number of
demo programs are provided to show how easy forms are built and used.
For simple forms and those that may be frequently used in application
programs, e.g., to ask a question or select a file name, special
routines are provided. For example, to let the user choose a file in a
graphical way (allowing him/her to walk through the directory
hierarchy with a few mouse clicks) the application program needs to
use just one line of code.

To make designing forms even easier a Form Designer is provided. This
is a program that lets you interactively design forms and generate the
corresponding C-code. You simply choose the objects you want to place
on the forms from a list and draw them on a form. Next you can set
attributes, change size and position of the objects, etc., all using
the mouse.

Although this document describes all you need to know about using the
Forms Library for X, it is not an X tutorial. On the contrary, details
of programming in X are purposely hidden in the Forms Library
interfaces, and one need not be an X-expert to use the Forms Library,
although some knowledge of how X works would help to understand the
inner workings of the Forms Library.

Forms Library and all the programs either described in this document
or distributed as demos have been tested under X11 R4, R5 & R6 on all
major UNIX platforms, including SGI, SUN, HP, IBM RS6000/AIX, Dec
Alpha/OSF1, Linux(i386, alpha, m68k and sparc) as well as FreeBSD,
NetBSD (i386, m68k and sparc), OpenBSD(i386, pmax, sparc, alpha), SCO
and Unixware. Due to access and knowledge, testing on non-unix
platforms such as OpenVMS, OS/2 and Microsoft/NT are less than
comprehensive.

This document consists of four parts. The first part is a tutorial
that provides an easy, informal introduction to the Forms Library.
This part should be read by everybody that wants to use the library.
You are encouraged to try variations of the demo programs distributed
in the Forms Library package.

Part II describes the Form Designer with which you can design forms
interactively and haveForm Designer write code for you.

Part III gives an overview of all object classes currently available
in the library. The tutorial part only mentions the most basic classes
but here you find a complete overview.

Adding new object classes to the system is not very complicated. Part
IV describes how this should be done.

@strong{Version Note}

The authors request that the following name(s) be used
when referring to this toolkit
@center Forms Library for X,
@center Forms Library
@center or simply
@center XForms

Forms Library is not public domain. It is copyright (c) by T.C. Zhao
and Mark Overmars, and others, with all published and unpublished
rights reserved. However, permission to use for non-commercial and
not-for-profit purposes is granted. You may not use xforms
commercially (including in-house and contract/consulting use) without
contacting (xforms@@world.std.com) for a license arrangement. Use of
xforms for the sole purpose of running a publically available free
software that requires it is not considered a commercial use, even in
a commercial setting.

You may not "bundle" and distribute this software with commercial
systems without prior consent of the authors. Permission to distribute
this software with other free software that requires it, including
Linux CD distribution, is granted. Further, permission to re-package
the software is granted.

This software is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind,
either expressed or implied. The entire risk as to the quality and
performance of the software is with you. Should the software prove
defective, you assume the cost of all necessary servicing, repair or
correction and under no circumstance shall the authors be liable for
any damages resulting from the use or mis-use of this software.

It would be appreciated if credit to the authors is acknowledged in
published articles on applications based on the library. A reprint of
the article would also be appreciated.

The development environment for xforms consists of Linux 1.0.8/a.out
X11R5 and Linux 2.0/ELF X11R6 with additional testing and validation
on SGI R8000 and occasionally IBM RS6000/AIX and other machines. For
every public release, most of the demos and some internal testing
programs are run on each platform to ensure quality of the
distribution.

Figures in this document were produced by fd2ps, a program that takes
the output of the form designer and converts the form definition into
an encapsulated POSTSCRIPT file. fd2ps as ofXForms V0.85 is included
in the distribution.

This document is dated June 12, 2000.

@strong{Support}

Although XForms has gone through extensive testing, there are most
likely a number of bugs remaining. Your comments would be greatly
appreciated. Please send any bug reports or suggestions to T.C. Zhao
(tc_zhao@@yahoo.com or xforms@@world.std.com but not both). Please do
not expect an immediate response, but we do appreciate your input and
will do our best.

@strong{Bindings to other languages}

As of this writing, the authors are aware of the following bindings

perl binding by Martin Bartlett (<martin@@nitram.demon.co.uk>)

ada95 binding by G. Vincent Castellano (<gvc@@ocsystems.com>)

Fortran binding by G. Groten (<zdv017@@zam212.zam.kfa-juelich.de>) and
Anke Haeming (<A.Haeming@@kfa-juelich.de>)

pascal binding by Michael Van Canneyt
(<michael@@tfdec1.fys.kuleuven.ac.be>)

scm/guile binding by Johannes Leveling
(<Johannes.Leveling@@Informatik.Uni-Oldenburg.DE>)

python binding by Roberto Alsina (<ralsina@@ultra7.unl.edu.ar>).
(Seems the author has stopped working on this binding).

Follow the links on XForms's home page to get more info on these bindings.

@strong{Archive Sites}

Permanent home for the Forms Library is at
@example
ftp://ncmir.ucsd.edu/pub/xforms
ftp://ftp.cs.ruu.nl/pub/XFORMS (Primary mirror site)
@end example

The primary site is mirrored by many sites around the world. The
following are some of the mirror sites
@example
ftp://ftp.fu-berlin.de/unix/X11/gui/xforms
ftp://gd.tuwien.ac.at/hci/xforms
ftp://ftp.st.ryukoku.ac.jp/pub/X11/xforms
ftp://ftp.via.ecp.fr/pub2/xforms
ftp://ftp.unipi.it/pub/mirror/xforms
ftp://ftp.uni-trier.de/pub/unix/X11/xforms
@end example

Additional mirrors, html version of this document, news and other
information related to XForms can be accessed through www via the
following URL
@example
http://world.std.com/~xforms
@end example

In addition to ftp and www server, a mail server is available for
those who do not have direct internet access.

To use the mail server, send a message to <mail-server@@cs.ruu.nl> or
the old-fashioned path alternative
<uunet!mcsun!sun4nl!ruuinf!mail-server>.

The message should be something like the following
@example
begin
path fred@@stone.age.edu (substitute your address)
send help
end
@end example

To get a complete listing of the archive tree, issue send ls-lR.Z.

@strong{Mailing List}

A mailing list for news and discussions about XForms is available. To
subscribe or un-subscribe, send a message to
<xforms-request@@bob.usuhs.mil> with one of the following commands as
the mail body
@example
help
subscribe
unsubscribe
@end example

To use the mailing list, send mail to <xforms@@bob.usuhs.mil>. Please
remember that the message will be sent to hundreds of people. Please
Do not send subscribe/unsubscribe messages to the mailing list, send
them to <xforms-request@@bob.usuhs.mil>.

The mailing list archive is at
@code{http://bob.usuhs.mil/mailserv/list-archives}.

@strong{Thanks}

Many people contributed, in one way or another, to the development of
Forms Library, without whose testing, bug reports and suggestions,
Forms Library would not be what it is today and would certainly not be
in the relatively bug free state it is in now. We thank Steve Lamont
of UCSD (<spl@@szechuan.ucsd.edu>), for his numerous suggestions and
voluminous contributions to the mailing list. We thank Erik Van Riper
(<geek@@midway.com>), formerly of CUNY, and Dr.@: Robert Williams of
USUHS (<bob@@bob.usuhs.mil>) for running the mailing list and keeping
it running smoothly. We also thank every participant on the mailing
list who contributed by asking questions and challenging our notion of
what typical use of the Forms Library is. The html version of the
document, undoubtedly browsed by the thousands, is courtesy of Danny
Uy (<dau@@westworld.com>). We appreciate the accurate and detailed bug
reports, almost always accompanied with a demo program, from Gennady
Sorokopud (<gena@@NetVision.net.il>) and Rouben Rostamian
(<rostamian@@umbc.edu>). We also thank Martin Bartlett
(<martin@@nitram.demon.co.uk>), who, in addition to marrying Forms
Library to perl, made several xforms API suggestions, Last but
certainly not least, we thank Henrik Klagges (<henrik@@UniX11.com>)
for his numerous suggestions during the early stages of the
development.
